Waterfall Vs Agile

Waterfall- is a methology that isnt that popular anymore. waterfall is for softwares that want quality but not
the speed for its clients.and that no changes will be made once started. you can change and fix bugs but
you CANNOT change no fuctionalities. you can not go bach to any previous phase. once phase completed you have to wait
until entire waterfall is complete and start all over again.

waterfall is simple,clear initiative,step by step process,

Agile is the most popular methology currently being used. and scrum is the most popular framwork within agile.
Agile was deigned to work fast and to be and to have many options like a ala cart menu.
with this framework there is more communication. waterfall is like a fine dine in restaurant while agile is like chick fila
in regards to service and speed.Agile is also a piece by piece.

sprints are between 1-4 usually being 2 weeks through out the industry. and once a sprint time like is chosen
it cannot be changed throught out the SDLC.

Agile is desighned for when there isnt a clear picture of the pruduct. it gives the client the ability to change  add of the pr
product in case of keeping up with the world or adapting.

Agile frame workes- Scrum, kanban, scrumban,crystal, extreme programming XP

Agile roles- Product owner (PO), Scrum Master, Development team

Artifacts- Product Backlog, Sprint Backlog, burndown Chart

a PO - is like the big boss that communicates and accepts or rejects work. PO's can authorize change within prints like a broject manager

Scrum Master- is like the supervisor that is the middle man between the PO and the dev team. he ensures scrum is understood,
communicates to the product owner and does not make decisions for the team

Dev Team- demonstrates sprints results to the product owner. the dev team includes Testers, architect, designers, and BA's

artifacts
1. Product Backlog- a wish of list of all desired work/task/issues on the project. it is prioritized by the PO

2.User Story- is like waterfalls "requirements".Po's  are the only on that has authority to assight product backlog or sprints

ceremonies/meeting- daily stand up:15 min daily go over progress for yesterday and today
sprint groom,done mid sprint to go oversplitting big stories deleting or adjusting stories and backlog

Sprint demo- meeting with the customer end of sprint to preview progress

Sprint retrospect- next day after sprint ends to talk about what went well how toi adjust and blow some steam